From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman posted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lauren's Ryan announcing show
number one 59. Recorded live
Wednesday, April 23rd, 2009. Support for Hansel
minutes is provided by Tellerik
rad controls, the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forms and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottelerikdotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this episode, Scott talks
with iron Python programmer Michael Ford.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes sitting down
today with Michael Ford, a Python
advocate and the author of
the new book from Manning
called iron Python and action.
And Michael works. I actually
paid for a living to
work on Python all day
long for resolver systems. So
I wanted to sit down
with him and get an
understanding about a kind of
Python. So what I want
to be convinced that this
is an awesome, awesome thing.
Thanks for sitting down with
me, Michael. No problem. It's
great to speak to you.
So where do you want
to start? I mean, there's
a lot of C-sharp programmers
and there's a lot of
VB programmers, and now there
are more choices, you know,
for many years there was
really just the two languages
and they would kind of
play some war to decide,
which was on top. And
then out of nowhere, the
DLR and Ruby and Python,
and then a whole litany
of niche.net languages that are
dynamic based. Why, why did
you pick ? Why did
you write your application in.net
at all? I come from
a Python background. I've been
developing with, with Parsons from
about 2002. So I come
from a background of dynamic
languages and living in the
dynamic languages community. I've seen
the popularity of dynamic languages
on the rise really for
ever since. I started, certainly
when I started in 2002
dynamic languages in general and
pricing, and in particular really
were in niche. And I
think as computer hardware as
has been getting better, so
raw performance is perhaps being
less of an issue, but
for whatever reason, dynamic languages
have been becoming more popular.
And then particularly with the
explosion of Ruby, a couple
of years ago, interest in
dynamic languages, just rocketed. And
I mean, we've seen at
the, our international pipeline conference,
we've seen record attendances for
the last couple of years
with Google app engine and
that all the Google support
for Python, there's been an
enormous amount of interest in
dynamic languages. Now for the
average C-sharp or VP developer,
who's listening, let's, let's be
a little pedantic and, and
give me a definition of
static versus dynamic in a
way that someone who has
never done anything into that
mic languages maybe could understand
Slightly fuzzy terms. But I
think that the clear differences
that in aesthetically type language,
the type of every variable
that you use, the type
of every object that you
use has to be known
at compile time now in,
in C sharp and vb.net.
That means you declare it
in languages like F sharp
and Haskell. The type is
inferred by the compiler, and
it occasionally needs some hints,
but whether it's inferred or
it's declared, the type is
known upfront when you compile
your code. So the compiler
is going to pick up
any type of errors in
dynamic languages, the type isn't
determined until runtime now that
they're still strongly typed languages.
So you can't do sort
of crazy things like adding
numbers to strings, which, which
you can do in some
languages, JavaScript, and Pearl, for
example, will let you do
that. And that leads to
crazy bugs to find out
you'll still get errors, but
you'll get runtime errors in
instead of compile time errors
and in dynamic languages, the
semantics of what you do
is much more determined by
object behavior than it is
just by specifically types. And
that actually gives you a
lot more flexibility in what
you can do with the
language. It's, it's a lot
less restrictive in, in terms
of you don't have to
fight against the type system
as you, as you're writing
your code to do what
you want to do. Okay.
So I'm going to ask
some devil's advocate questions, kind
of ignorant questions to get
an understanding about this. So
I see when I see
the dynamic language, hello, world
demo, and one explains it
to a static language person.
They usually go look, you
know, a equals a string,
and then I go look
a equals some other days,
see how it just changed
type dynamically. Isn't that amazing
that in itself kind of
is the says what you
just said, but in a
very, very, very simplistic way.
So I can so types,
so types can be changed
at runtime type types are
inferred. How does that really
change the, the idioms that
I use as a programmer?
How does that make it
more fun? I mean, it
seems to me that when
I, when I, you know,
sneak in and I'm a
fly on the wall with
a dynamic language programming group,
they seem to be having
more fun. Why is that
two lines of code where
I turn this, I change
a string variable into a
date and nothing, you know,
it just happens. Why does
that make it so much
more fun to be a
dynamic language program? Okay, well
obviously the, that specific example
is trivial in it and
is actually generally bad practice
just generally just changing the
type of your variables on
the fly. But I mean,
let me give you one
specific example. I've had an
email very recently from a
guy called Mark Bloodworth. Who's
a Microsoft architecture evangelist. He
was, he's been interested in
dynamic languages for awhile. And
so he asked, he asked
me, where do I think
that dynamic language is fit
best? Is there a niche
that dynamic languages fit into?
And now I think first
of all, there are niches
that dynamic languages fit into
even for the, even for
those who prefer statically, really
type languages like C sharp
and vb.net. And hopefully we
will get to some, some
of those use cases, even
if you're not about to,
to, to jump ship. But
one of the things as
I've been using C-sharp more
and more, we've got a
bit of C sharp in
our code base. I wrote
a lot of C sharp
examples for the book, the
embedding C sharp and so
on. And I'm becoming more
and more convinced that dynamic
language is actually allow for
simpler architectures. And that's partly
to do with the dynamic
typing itself. And it's partly
to do with less inherent
complexity in, in, in, in
the runtimes they assume. But
just to give one specific
example, a colleague and I
did a tutorial, an introduction
to iron pipes and the
recent Python potent conference. And
one of the things we
did was write a database
application, the work with various
different databases. Now, if you've
done that in.net and you've
used the different sort of
database provider classes, then some
of the connections you're creating
for all of the different
databases, they don't share a
common interface and they're all
different types. So if you
want to be agnostic about
which one you want to
use, you've got to write
this extra layer over the
top, which will say right,
if I'm using this date,
this particular database, I'm using
this particular class, and I
need to put an interface
layer on top, on top
of it so that I
can have easy access to
it without having to compare
in without having to CA
care in the next level
up of the code as
to which one it is.
Whereas in, in person, we
just had a very simple
bit of code that says,
right, depending on which one
I'm using, I'll import the,
the correct class and I'll
import it and I'll, I'll
give it a common name,
SQL connection, whichever one of
those it is I'm using.
And then I just need
to store a little bit
of information about which of
the parameter classes I need
to be using and so
on. So there's this whole
layer of architecture we could
remove just by being able
to dynamically do the lookup
for which class we needed
to use at runtime, rather
than having it sort of
statically baked into our code.
Hm. Now, is that, is
that something that's fundamental and
really only possible in a
dynamic language? Or is that
something I could have, if
I'd known the pattern I
could have done in C
sharp using some clever bit
of reflection or Just do
it in reflection. But I
think reflection is one of
the wonderful examples of the
differences between dynamic languages and
statically typed languages. Because if
you look at reflection in
dotnet and the kind of
code you have to write
it, it's kind of ugly
because you're carrying around these
system dot types and you
have to call if you've
done any of it, you
just know it's a bit
painful. Whereas the introspection capabilities
of, of languages, Python, and
Ruby and small talk, it's
all beautifully simple. And you
can just look up the
members, you can call members.
And because, cause you're late
bounds because you're dynamically typed,
it's also straightforward. Hmm. Okay.
So a lot of people
have been taking iron Python
as a, as a, a
dynamic language that also does.net
and then been embedding it,
it seems to become the
scripting language, does your, where
you have an app and
you want to make it
a scriptable you drop in
iron, iron Python. Right? And
I think that's one of
the main use cases for.net
developers, who aren't about to
jump ship and write their
applications in iron person. But
if you want to add
scripting capability, if you want
maybe an extensible architecture, you've
got a readymade scripting engine
and it was designed for
this from the start. So
the API for embedding or
calling code for creating instances
of classes that are written
in on POS is all
very simple. And it's going
to get a lot nicer
in, in C sharp for
as well. Hmm. Okay. Now,
how do you use it
as a scripting language in
your application and how did
that come about? Because you
said there was a little
bit of a, of a
history there about what happened
first, The application that we've
created resolver one is a,
it's a programmable spreadsheet. And
the idea is that if
the spreadsheets get used to
create business applications and they
rapidly grow out of control
and become very difficult to
maintain, I think anyone who's
been involved in businesses, sort
of seeing that happen with
the idea was by the
guys who founded the company
was, was to create a
spreadsheet system that was programmable
right from the start. And
that was baked right into
the heart of the application.
And so the idea was
that it would have this
interpreted language embedded in it,
the, the, the, the formula
and the data that you
put into the spreadsheet would
be turned into an in
real time code in this
interpreted language, and then mixing
in your own code and
interfacing to external systems would
then be very easy. And
because it was a desktop
application and it was going
to be aimed at businesses,
they chose m.net and windows
forms as the platform. Cause
they're very established technologies and
they kind of assumed that
they were going to be
writing it in C sharp.
Cause that's, you know, if
you're writing a, a desktop
application, that's just what you
do. You write it in
C sharp. Yeah. Or VB.
I mean, I guess really
you just, you, you sit
down and you say, I
guess these are the two
choices I have. Yup. Yup.
And you, you pick whichever
one, I mean, one of
them was an ex Java
developer. One of them has
done a lot of C
plus plus and objective C.
So C sharp seemed to
the more natural fit for
what they were going to
do, but they needed to
have this interpretive language embedded
in it. And iron bison
was about version 9.7 at
the time. And this was
a few months before I
joined the company and they
started playing with iron posts
and they found that, first
of all, everything they wanted
to do with the.net framework
they could do from iron
pipe and the integration was
very and very straightforward. So
you can, you can import
the classes. You can have
references to the assemblies. You
can use the classes, all
the features of dot matter
available to you. But the
second thing was the person
was very easy to learn.
And so not having used
it, they found that they
were picking it up very
rapidly. They really enjoyed it.
They liked it as a
language. But the other thing
was that they decided to
use test driven development. The
guy, one of the guys
who founded the company was,
is, has used test driven
development before, and is a
real fan of it for
producing quality code and for
creating a system that's maintainable.
And one of the big
things about dynamic languages, because
you can override behavior at
runtime, they're dramatically easier to
test. And so they have
this crazy idea. They thought,
well, let's prototype the application
in iron person. We'll see
how far we get. And
then at some point, presumably
we're going to hit a
wall. Whether that wall is
performance or stuff we can't
do, but by then, we'll
have a, we'll have a
great prototype and maybe we
can keep the testing stuff
in on place. And who
knows. And that was over
three years ago, we've got
sort of 30 to, well,
I think it's about 40,000
lines of code in nine
plus, and now a few
hundred lines of C sharp
and about 140, 150,000 lines
of iron pipe and code
in our tests framework. So
really the choice to use
iron pipe was made or
the choice to use Piscean
was made after the choice
to use. Dotmailer kind of
happened by accident. And when
I joined the firm, I
was the first one with
any experience of bison, which
was quite fun. Now, did
they, did they ever acknowledge
that they're not turning back?
Oh yes. Yeah. I mean,
now it just wouldn't make
sense except the fact that
we've always said that for
performance reasons, if we, if
we need, if we can
get better performance by recoding
parts of our application in,
in C sharp, and then
we'll do it, we're not
kind of them, we're not
doctrinal about it. We, we,
we need to do what
we need to do, but
we've actually looked at performance
at various times, various bits
of the application. And that
was, we'll have to do
it again in, in, in
the future with, we're probably
about do around that actually.
And every time we've come
to look at performance, we've
said this particular operation or
these set of operations needs
to take X amount of
time and it's currently taking
them why that's too long.
And we've always gotten the
performance we needed by refactoring
by, by profiling and optimizing
our power in the code
rather than having to drop
down to C sharp. But
the nice thing about the
iron pipeline is that the
integration is so good that
if we were writing classes
in C-sharp, we would just
be using them as native
Python classes. So other than
having to do a bit
of coding in C sharp,
it wouldn't require us to
change much in the application
to do that. And I
think this is, this is
one of the things about
dynamic language is people have
this impression that they're slow,
they're not suitable for large
scale applications. And I think
that largely basically entirely comes
from people who haven't actually
tried them. If you, if
you're ruling out a dynamic
language on the basis of
performance, then you're making a
premature optimization and largely programs
run slow because the languages
are slow. But because it's
hard to write code faster
and it takes work. Now,
one thing that you said
there was, was integration. And
I think when people think
about integration, there's two aspects
of it. There's like you
said, talking to the PCL
and being able to speak
to the base class library
and to integrate with other
dominant languages in a fairly
seamless way. That's one company.
Yeah. There was a gap
at the moment. The, the
gap is with attributes, not,
not attributes, which can be
a problem for some libraries.
So we have written stop-losses
in C sharp where we've
needed to access attributes and
the main reason they haven't
integrated that is actually cause
there's, well, there are various
reasons, but one of the
reasons is that it's hard
to find a good syntax
for it in bison. So
we're bugging the iron place
and guys, and we'll get
that soon. We're a short,
yeah. That's one side of
integration. Okay. Then the other
aspect is integration with the,
with visual studio. There's this
sense that if something, if
you can't go file new
whatever and get syntax highlighting
and some kind of IntelliSense
and debugging, then it's, it's
scary. Or it's I was
gonna say, it's scary enough.
Or it's it's off the
main beaten path enough that
that a company will say,
you know, I don't know
what kind of toy language
this is, but I'm not
going to, we as a
company, whoever we are are
not gonna standardize on this.
Cause it's just, it's just,
just, it's not in visual
studio. It's not real, right.
It's not actual until that
little dot P Y files.
You can double click on
them and start typing. And
you can tell us what's
the experience in as far
as integration and Python, Unfortunately,
the integration with visual studio
2005 is better than the
integration with visual studio, 2008,
with visual studio, 2005, you
get this, you have to
install the SDK, which means
you need visual studio professional,
but the SDK has got
pretty good integration in terms
of debugging in terms of
the designers and you get
the syntax highlighting, of course.
And some IntelliSense, IntelliSense is
something that's, that's hard for
dynamic languages because the types
aren't known until runtime. So
visual studio really does the
very minimum. They're actually much
better placed than IDs, which
have been by people. Who've
been working with dynamic languages
for a lot longer that
do a lot more work
on statically, analyzing the code,
inferring the types and giving
you good. I'm good IntelliSense.
Good. Auto-complete so my, my
preferred ID is for place
and is not equal weight,
but I, in visual studio
2005, if you do get
that now in 2008 as
this external project called iron
pipe and studio, and that
uses the extensibility shell, Right.
They call it VSX right.
Yeah, that's right. Yeah. And
you can run it on
its own as an IDE,
or you can run it
integrated into visual studio. You
do get, you do get
syntax, you get the same
limited IntelliSense. So that works,
the basic stuff works, but
it was really done as
an example of visual studio
extensibility. And so I found
that the, the designers crashed
for example, and so on.
And so it's not something
that I really recommend using.
So it sounds like it's
not quite a slam dunk.
It's not quite to the
point where I can rush
over to my boss boss's
office with a laptop and
say, well, we kind of
do it now in Python.
Look how awesome it is.
See how it integrates with
everything. That's right. And we'll
see what they come up
with in visual studio, 2010
I've I've only just finished
the book it came out
in and amazon.com literally a
couple of weeks ago. So
I haven't looked at what
they've done in visual studio
2010 yet, but I'll be
having a look at that.
But I was at a
conference with Martin Fowler very
recently. Who's a he's of
course, a dynamic language enthusiast
who works for footwork's. And
he really became, turned onto
dynamic languages through Ruby. And,
and over the last few
years, he's seen ThoughtWorks do
more and more Ruby projects.
It's still only, I can't
remember exactly what he said
about 30% of their work
or so on his route
is Ruby. They still do
a lot of Java. They
still do a lot of
dot nets. But one of
the things he said is
that there's the focus switch
from Java to Ruby. They
typically switch from using eclipse
to using the editors like
text, make them Emacs that
the much more lightweight, some
editors I was in lightweight
tools for lightweight languages. And
he said, the interesting thing
is that the refactoring support
that you have in eclipse,
you haven't heard anyone complain
about missing it. Now these
tools are available for dynamic
languages. There's some very good
tools for placing out there.
I think it's a bit
of a myth that tools
don't exist with dynamic languages.
I think exactly what you
were saying earlier, that when
people say the tool support,
isn't very good for dynamic
languages. What they mean is
it doesn't run in visual
studio. But the interesting thing
is that the developers who
do switch actually tend to
end up using much more
lightweight editors. Anyway, Hi, it's
Scott here from another place
in time. I hope you're
enjoying the show so far.
I apologize for interrupting it,
but I wanted to let
you know that assembling a
podcast like this every week,
isn't free. Certainly the bandwidth
bill crushes us every month.
So I wanted to let
you know that this show
is sponsored by Tellerik. They
make the show possible and
it makes it pretty cool
products as well. For example,
if you're trying to build
a web 2.0 Ajax application,
trying to use the web
1.0 components, it's kind of
difficult. You got to get
the next gen stuff. If
you want to build the
next gen websites. And that's
exactly what the folks at
Tellerik have got and their
new upcoming product, which is
code named rad controls. Prometheus's,
it's a big pack of
web controls built entirely on
top of the Microsoft ASP
net Ajax stuff that you
already understand. It's going to
give you a lot of
performance interactivity on your next
project. They mirror the ASP
net Ajax API. So the
development's really straightforward client scripture's
shared loading time is pretty
fast. Instead, a couple of
properties, you can even bind
a web services for really
efficient operation. The new rad
editor for ESPN at Ajax
loads up to four times
faster than before. And the
rad grid will do thousands
of records in milliseconds. But
of course, it's, it's better
to try these things for
yourself. So you can visit
dot com slash ASP,
net Ajax, and download a
trial. Thanks a lot for
listening and we'll get right
back to the show. Now,
did, did, did any of
this integration or lack of
integration become a problem with
your, with your company that
you have to keep kind
of convincing them that no,
don't worry. Don't worry. This
is supported. This is real.
No. And the interesting thing
is we've never, well, whenever
we've hired, we've never made
knowing Python a priority because
we know that if we
hire good developers, that they're
going to pick up pipes
in very quickly. And as
I said, I, I prefer
the wing idea. It turns
out that most of the
rest of the developers in
my company, there's a, this,
this war between the max
users and the VR users,
and we do pair programming.
So whoever you pair with
you end up using their
ID. So if you're a,
if you're a fan of
them, you end up using
them Emacs. So the other
way around, there's a, there's
a bit of Peyton, but
it's, that's just never been
an issue for us. And
then you've been doing this
for very, very long time,
but what is a good
way for someone to sit
down and learn it, dynamic
language? I mean, should they
should have done it program
or a VB or a
C sharp programmer, sit down
and try to learn iron
Python, or should they go
and get straight Python and
kind of learn the other
side and then try to
bring it over to the
irony and bring their knowledge
over to iron Python once
they've got the basic center.
The great thing about
is that I'm really, you're
just using the.net framework. I
mean, I often look stuff
up on MSDN and I
need to convert the C
sharp examples to . And
very often it's just a
case of remove the type
declarations, remove the new, remove
the curly braces, remove the
semi-colons and bang is valid.
And the syntax really is
very clear. It is a
very easily easy language to
learn. And if you're starting
with iron pipe and having
done, C-sharp having done vb.net,
you're going to find most
of what you're doing very
familiar. So that's actually a
very good way. So until
I'm talking, obviously I recommend
as the very best way
of learning on person. I
am posting in action. It's
a fantastic book, but pricing
it's really very easy to
learn. Now, your book are
in Python, an action book
that you wrote. Is that
something that is appropriate for
someone to just get started
with? Yes. I wrote it
specifically with us in mind.
The, the, the second chapter
is a very fast paced
Python tutorial, and then it
goes through, there's a few
chapters of just writing a
simple structured application in place
and using various of the
language features and using various
of the features of the.net
framework. But there's, there's hopefully
enough in there that it
should serve as a reference
as well. And with those
chapters on Silverlight on WPF,
on system administration, one of
the things I love with
hyphema is that the very
first chapter introduces the interactive
interpreter and the interactive interpreter.
You, you can fire up
if you've got a console
and you can start to
execute code immediately, so you
can import your classes. You
can start to create instances
of them. So you get
to play around with things
in a very interactive and
a very exploratory sort of
environments. And I know.net developers
who they, they don't really
use iron pipes in production,
but they do use the
interactive interpreters as a tool
for exploring things that are
new to them and just
trying things out. So the
interactive experience is one of
the things that's very important
with dynamic languages. Have you,
have you used PowerShell at
all? I've used it a
little bit, actually, mainly through
writing the book, because one
of the interesting things about
PowerShell is you can embed
it into other languages and,
and, and the same thing
with iron. And so in
the chapter on system administration,
there's a section on embedding
PowerShell in on bison and
a section on embedding iron
pipes and in PowerShell PowerShell,
for example, the WMI integration
and the integration is very
good. So you might want
to take advantage of that
for mine place. And then,
then I'm placing, you can
use to overcome some of
the things that are harder
to do in, in PowerShell.
So yeah, I've played with
it a bit. I haven't
used it a great deal.
Well, I bring it up
because a while back I
had an application that I
wanted to make. Scriptable I
had a fairly organized object
model. And the way that
you made that scriptable in
PowerShell was that you just
fired up an instance of
one of these PowerShell engine
objects or whatever. I don't
remember what PowerShell host or
something like that. You handed
it, you fired up a
PowerShell host, you handed it
your object, your, your live
running instance of an object.
And then you said.run. And
that was kind of three
lines. And instantly, you've got
a scripting now, fast forward,
many years, and now I've
got this, this baby smash
game, which I want to
turn into an educational tool.
I've got a bunch of
objects and I want to
make it scriptable. Cause rather
than me adding functionality to
it, why not let the
parents just write Python? Right?
Walk me through what's involved
in taking some application. It
doesn't matter what it is.
You know, it's just some
basic application that has an
object model and making it
scriptable. Well, it's very similar
to, to doing with, with
power shots at one conference,
I had a Mark, the
PowerShell guy, who's got a,
he's got a very good
blog on PowerShell. And he
showed me one of his
examples with a, a turtle
that you could write little
scripts and move the turtle
around that the screen light
light logo. And I converted
that over to, to iron
Python. And it was like
one extra line of code,
I think, to, to change
his example, to scripting with
iron bison. So it's quite
a similar experience. You create
the and engine, and then
you, you create a context
that you're going to execute
your code in. That's like
a namespace. So where variables
are created by the script
or objects are instantiated, that
the context is where they're
going to live. And then
you, you just execute code
inside that context if you
want. So the big question
is always, well, how do
I expose the object model
from my application? Exactly. And
my question before you, before
you continue, my question is
what should my object model
look like? Well, an execution
context is really just, it's
just a mapping. It's just
a, it's effectively a dictionary
that maps names strings to,
to objects, which are then
appear as variables in the,
in the user's context. So
you could put classes in
there and let the user
instantiate them. I mean, Parson
has this, its whole execution
model. A model is based
around modules, which are a
bit like namespaces in, in
C sharp and vb.net. So
you can, you can make
things available to import by
effectively making them as available
as, as, as modules to
the, to the embedded engine.
So you can either put
them directly. You can just
put objects directly into the
namespace and say interacts with
this, which is how the
turtle was. You have a
turtle object that you could
call dots, move forward, dot
turn left, and, and this
kind of thing. Or you
can put the, you can
expose the object model as,
as a series of modules.
The user can then import
and you can then have
hooks, which say, right, if
they create instances of these
classes, I'm going to collect
them. So when that script
is executed, I can then
introspect the instances that they've
created, pull those out. And
then maybe, maybe each instance
is going to be an
instance of a command objects.
That's an example of that
in chapter 15 of iron
plus an inaction, which is
writing a dotnet applique application
with, with plugins and the
plugins are written in Python
code. Oh, very cool. Okay,
cool. So chapter 15 of
your book, I'll make sure
you get a copy, Scott.
Well, I guess it, it
has, the membership has its
privileges. Thank you. Okay. So
now do you, when you're
hosting iron Python in your
application, you're still in the
CLR you're, you're still, you're,
you're hosting the DLR runtime,
but as far as keeping
track of, of what am
I trying to say, keeping
track of conflicts and things.
I mean, this is just
a, another library. It's not
like a new app domain
fires up, right, Right. Yes.
It's executing in your abdomen.
You can't, there is a
built in support. So say
in the dynamic language runtime
to say, right, create me
a place engine and create
it in this app domain.
So keep it completely separate.
And that's quite useful if
you want to add plugins
and use a scripting, but
you want to restrict the
privileges of, of what the
user can do, but you,
you might not want it
to do that Now from
a security perspective though, what
kind of things do I
want to think about? I'm
going to be suddenly opening
up a huge chunk of
my application for a well,
really arbitrary code execution. I'm
saying here, take this textbox
and put whatever you want
in it. How do I
keep someone in resolver or
in baby smashed Python edition
from writing format C colon?
Right. So the thing to
do then would be to,
to, to put the pipes
in engine inside, inside an
app, its own app domain,
and set there, the security
privileges on that. And then
when you, when you want
to look at objects from
your, from your side of
the barrier, that they've going
to be serialized across the
boundary for you, but the
code, the on piping code
is restricted to only doing
what you've allowed it to
do. Do you, do you
guys do that with resolver?
How do I, you know,
how can someone avoid attacking
resolver in that way? Or
is that not really an
attack? Well, we have, we
have, we don't see it
at the moment as an
attack because the code you're
running on it is the,
is the code you've written.
So it's intended as an
application development platform. So we
don't want to very heavily
restrict what you're capable of
doing. Cause the whole point
is you're supposed to be
capable of doing whatever you
want, but that's certainly something
we look, we're looking out
for the future for, for
having a restricted execution model.
I guess it becomes more
of a problem when one
introduces something like an online
gallery or they give their
plugins their own extension and
make it such that someone
could download plugins quickly. If
resolver had a large community
of shared scripts, then things
and it's one click to
import it into your application.
And I suppose that might
be a more of more
dangerous We would like to
see that happen. So it's
definitely something we've, we've got
an eye on for the,
for the future, But it's
good that iron pipe sounds
like iron Python supports that
very nicely with the having
other app domains and then
being able to have different
trusts for those, for those
apps. So what do you
want to change about iron
Python? I assume you talked
to the team all the
time, where does it completely
fall down? Is it just
the attributes thing that you
mentioned earlier? That's quite a
big hole. It will get
filled. I guess the, the
one thing at the moment,
if, if you're working from
the, from the embedding side
from the, and you're embedding
on pricing into C sharp,
the difficult the difficulty is
when you're working with objects
on the C sharp side,
you, you need to know
the type upfront. So you've
got a compile time. So
you've got this kind of,
what's the phrase impedance mismatch
between I'm creating objects that
runtime by executing user code
in, in a dynamically type
language. So those objects don't
even exist until runtime, but
then I need to interact
with them from the, from
the statically type side where
I need to be able
to say a compile time,
what type of those objects
are going to be. And
of course, if you're executing
arbitrary code, you just don't
know what's going to happen.
And certainly if you create
pure Python objects, then the
objects you get is of
a dynamic type. And, and
so you can't say to
the compiler at compile time,
give me this member, or
I want to call this
method because the compiler just
doesn't know where to look,
that that method doesn't exist
until runtime. So at the
moment, the way round that
is the DLI itself has
got its own API that
says, right, give me a
dynamic object and tell me
what message you want to
call and I'll call it
for you. And it just,
it looks a bit like
reflection. It's not quite as,
as intricate as reflection is
it, but, but it just,
the, the code for then
interacting with dynamic objects starts
to become a bit more
verbose than you'd really like.
One of the very interesting
things is I think the,
the fix for that, that
they've got coming in, in
C-sharp four is really very
elegant. And what you can
do is you can say
when I've got objects that
I've created for my end
person, and I want to
pull those and interacts with
those from, from C sharp
will be beat on that.
What you can do is
declare that type as being
dynamic and safe to the
compiler. This is a dynamic
object. So I'm done statically
compile my, my member look
ups my indexing. When I
use this as a numerical
object to all of these
things that would normally be
resolved at compile time. You
say, this is a dynamic
objects you need to do
at late bounds when the
code is actually running and
it calls back into the
DLR and it does all
this stuff for you. So
that's something that in C
sharp is going to be
a lot nicer, but I,
I dunno how quickly a
resolver we're going to be
able to depend on C-sharp
for our application. We'll we'll
have to see how quick
the take up is on
that. Now, one of the
things that you just brought
up, I thought we should
probably talk about just before
we, before we finish up
here was the notion of
the dynamic object. I think
that the C-sharp NPB developers
are familiar with the concept
of system dot object that
you just kind of in
passing mentioned that an object
that I created in Python,
if I go and create
a person object and gave
it some, some behavior, and
it found its way over
into C-sharp or VB, it's
not quite gonna look like
I might expect if I
started exploring that object. Can
you talk a little bit
more about that? Sure. And
I'm one of, one of
the difficulties is that piping
classes are a lot more
flexible than C shop classes.
You can add members at
runtime, you can override members
or runtime classes can be
garbage collectors. You can create
new ones at runtime. And
in fact, none of the
classes are even created until
runtime. So if you create
a Python class that is
not a true C sharp
class, you can't statically reference
that and then use it
directly. And, but the, these
features are one of the
things that make testing a
dynamic language is so, so
much easier because if I
want to test this, I'm
calling method a calls, method,
B passing in certain types,
we can override method, be
it runtime, very straightforwardly things
like dependency, injection, and inversion
of controls that are, I
mean, they're good architectural patterns,
but they're often used just,
you can make your code
testable and they're just not
needed for those reasons. But,
but the downside of that
is, is that if we
want to use these classes
from C-sharp the VB on
that we haven't got at
that dotnet class to use.
Okay. So let's do dig
a little bit more into
that because you've mentioned a
couple of times that it
makes testing really easy. This
is because of mocking, right?
We don't mock the same
way in, in a dynamic
language that we do instead
of language. Yeah. In, in
for example, suppose you have
methadone and it takes two,
two parameters X, and Y
both of those, you have
to declare the type. And
that calls up to methadone.
There are mocking libraries that
you can use in, in
dot nets to achieve all
that. But in, and particularly
in Python, the runtime, isn't
going to check the types
of X and Y. What
it's going to do is
check the behavior. So lots,
as long as you pass
in some objects that implements
the same behavior, it doesn't
matter if the types don't
match. And the same with
we've got method, a calling
up to method B, we
can actually override method B
to check whether it's being
cooled. And that's very simple,
very, very little code. And
we can also, we can
even do things like suppose
method B instantiates, a class,
Right? That would be a
dependence. I would solve that
with dependency injection, Right? The
architecture of your application in
order to make it testable.
Whereas in person, we can
override that dependency at runtime
and say for the purposes
of the test, just during
the execution of this test,
that class name, when it's
looked up at runtime, I'm
actually going to give you
that I'm going to give
you my object and test
that you've instantiated my objects.
Now, if dependency injection turns
out to be a better
way to write the code,
and of course you can
still do that. You don't
need to change the way
you write your application just
to even make it test.
I see. Okay. Yeah. That's
interesting. You just said that
you wouldn't want it. You
wouldn't have to change the
way that you write your
application just to make it
testable. And that's kind of
one of the little bit
of tension points of tension.
And in doing development test
driven development kind of makes
your stuff testable by virtue
of the fact that the
tests are driving the way
things are going. Yeah. So
you ha you're forced to
ride in a testable way
and we use test driven
development. And I think it's,
I'm a big advocate, but
I didn't do it before
joining resolver. And it has
changed the way I develop.
I think it's a fantastic
way of thinking through and
designing your API, but it
doesn't quite change the style
of your coding quite so
much, necessarily in a dynamic
language, because you don't have
to jump through hoops just
to do the testing. Huh.
Okay. And then you think
that's a, that's a, a
big win for, for dynamic
languages. In general, if I'm
trying to convince someone to
start looking at dynamic languages,
Testing really is orders of
magnitude. You've got no compile
time, which is one of
the first things. So you've
got this very quick, rapid
feedback, edit run. So particularly
when you're doing TDD, where
you write a test, run
it, watch it fail, write
a bit of code, run
it, see whether the test
now passes. That's that feedback
cycle is very rapid with
dynamic languages. You cut out
the compile phase, but also
the features of the language
really make themselves amenable to
testing. And again, there's a
very good chapter on nothing
less than an action, which
goes through things like the
way you use mock objects
with that with dynamic languages,
things like monkey, patching modifying
live objects, which is something
that in general is bad
practice. But for testing, it's
very, it's quite ordinary and
very useful. And it also
talks about dependency injection and
how we do that. But
again, with dependency injection, we
don't have the type of
problem we can. We can
swap in objects of any
type. Now you just said,
monkey patching for you. That's
a throwaway word, but for
people who are listening, that's
probably not a throwaway, Right?
My monkey patching is a,
it's a term that actually
originates in the Python community,
the Zopa, which is the
big granddaddy of pipes and
web frameworks, and all the
Zopa developers it's originated as
an object publishing framework. And
a big application written on
top of it is called
, which is a content
management system, very widely used
in Europe. And it's been
around for years. So that's
sort of quite annoyed with
these upstarts, you know, the
Django and, and rails and
asp.net MVC, which are just
discovering all these things that
they say they've been doing
for years, but it's a
very big and heavy framework.
So I'm a little bit
of a funny reputation in
the place of wealth, but
they, they, they came up
with this term for modifying
live objects on the fly,
and they called it gorilla
patching, you know, with the
gue, with it, the sort
of thing, doing things sneakily
on the fly. And that's
kind of that term morphed
through gorilla patching to monkey
patching. And it's a, it's
a term that's got a
bit of a bad reputation
in Python. You can modify
live objects, you can change
the implementation or runtime, but
if you do that in
production code, what you end
up with is behavior. But
when you then go back
to the source code to
look at where that behavior
that is implemented, you reading
the code, and you're thinking,
you're thinking the code I'm
looking at is being executed,
but some other part of
your code is actually modified,
modified it at runtime and
something else is be something
else is actually executing. So
something that within the culture
of pipe and just isn't
done a lot, but then
Ruby came along and, and
they, you can modify the
built in types of the
various sort of primitive types
in, in Ruby. It was
just something you can't do
in pricing. You can attach
new methods to integers and
strings, and they took up
this term monkey patching, and
it became quite a common
term within the Ruby community.
So it's, it's a term
it's quite well known within
the dynamic languages community. That
mean that when Dotnet developers
use extension methods, we are
monkey patching and that's bad.
So kind of it it's
statically resolved. So for example,
the very common problem that
can happen. There's not that
common, but they'd certainly has
caused real problem for real
developers in Ruby is the
way you, you have two
libraries that define the same
methods and patch the same
methods onto, into JIRA or
onto a string, but have
a different implementation and perhaps
even take different number of
arguments they're going to clash
or things aren't going to
be cooled in the way
you expect. And you're not
necessarily going to know about
it. I mean, obviously if
you're testing, you'll probably find
out about it earlier. Whereas
I guess where if you're
using C of VB vb.net,
it just wouldn't compile. I
see. So in that instance,
it is, it is monkey
patching kind of technically, but
the fact that we have
that, that, that initial unit
test, Well, it is, and
I guess you could run
into the same situation where
you, where you get live
with convenience libraries, or even
parts of your application that
try to define these, these
common methods and think, well,
instead of providing these as
static methods or functions, as
we'd say in a world
where you have real functions,
you know, we're going to
be clever and patch these
orders, extension methods, then suddenly
you've got conflict and you've
got coach tried to call
things that actually doesn't exist.
And you go to try
and sort that out yourself,
which I guess is one
of the common arguments against
over use of extension methods.
Okay. Okay. Well, I've got
one last one last question,
which is kind of like
a, more of a comment
slash question, but someone told
me once that when, when
arguing about static languages versus
dynamic languages, that compilation was
really just a unit test
and that dynamic languages could
compete with static languages. If
the argument was simply that,
Oh, well, I have this
compiler and it makes things
safer. If you have a
unit test, There's this great
quote by this guy. I
think he's called Stuart Halloway.
And he said that in
years to come, we're going
to seek compilation as the
very weakest form of unit
testing. And the thing is
that the compiling really does
catch only a very small
subset of all possible bugs.
And, you know, I know
some programs think that if
their program compiles, it doesn't
have any bugs, but I
suspect that they haven't been
programming for very long and
really the kind of bugs,
the type errors that it
catches are really the sort
of ones that are quite
easy to catch. And the
minimal amount of testing, if
you exit, if the code
is, if your code is
making the wrong assumptions about
types, then really just exercising
that code in, in almost
any way. It's probably gonna
pick up those bugs and
also automated tools. I mean,
we use PI lint, which
is a coding quality checker
that, that runs over our
code base and catches a
lot of the kinds of
errors. Constellation would normally catch
compilation, really just Catches nothing
at all. If you think
about it, when it comes
to how it doesn't tell
you anything about how you
expect your application will run,
it's just, it's like saying,
well, I've written a fine
novel here and everything. It's
a wonderful novel. The spellchecker
said, so That's right. Yeah,
exactly. And I think if
you want to, if you
care about the quality of
your code, you're going to
have automated tests. You're going
to even attest that it
behaves how, how you expected.
And in which case, really
compilation has bought you very
little. And it turns out
that, that, that in maintaining
this type safety and adhering
to this type system, that
there's actually quite a cost
and what it allows you
to do Well, Michael Ford, thank
you so much for speaking
with me and talking about
Python today. And that folks
remember that Michael's got a
book out called Python Python
inaction, and your name online
is void space, right? Both
spaces, but also UK slash
blogs. We'll get you to
my blog.  dot com,
books, websites, and then forget
resolver systems.com, which everyone should
try out. Fantastic. Well, this
has been another episode of
Hansel minutes, and we'll see
you again next week.